foreign
we've got a ton of incredible VC content
um Arnold bonesome here is a prominent
angel in Singapore joined us doing
another big structured session with ggvc
and several others in the afternoon
um but to kick it off Venture is uh like
such a it's such a there's so many
questions with Founders I actually find
I don't know about you I find Venture
Capital very boring it's like the same
documents there's like four different
terms like from a VC perspective
everything's kind of the same like you
do pre-seed you do angel precede seed
ABC it seems so boring
um but yet Founders don't go through
this that often right
um and and there's a sort of an
inexhaustible anxiety and list of
questions so we'll look at everything
today we've got Sequoia we've got
Bessemer we've got uh so many of the top
funds presenting but thought for folks
that wanted to ask extra questions about
Venture investing in others today we
could do it um and so just uh I'll open
it up to just general questions but I
could frame things a little bit
um
the only thing I would say to kind of
kick off the discussion uh uh an
executive before I started asking the
question it's like um you know when when
do you think we're going to get out of
this downturn adventure
um and I'll I'll kick it off oh your
thoughts are I don't think there's any
downturn Adventure I think there's just
a reset
um and folks that have
not been raising capital or seeing this
side of things
uh
since say 2018 we'll think this is a
terrible time it's terrible time because
things got insane and peaked in November
2021 like we'd never seen the types of
not just startup rounds and multiples
but public companies were trading it in
at
sizes in November 2021 and then it
degraded and plummeted to a low in
November 2022 were we today in in
February 23 actually we're better than
November 2022 the the if Cloud stocks if
you just invested in Cloud stocks in
November 22 you'd be up almost 25 like
it's pretty good call it a day for the
year you made 25 on your money from the
low but we are we are we are still
somewhat lower than we were in 2018 and
2019 and we're kind of consistent with
what SAS Venture Capital was through
2018 through the boom so I'll that
that's why it's it feels dire to a lot
of folks it feels dire but actually it's
just a reset to the world where
the best public companies are worth
several billion dollars they're worth
several billion dollars
um you know uh freshworks is one of the
you know the great breakouts from India
what's the market cap five billion today
on 400 million in Revenue something like
that I should look it up we should look
it up and that's an outlier right the
the the git Labs of the world 5 billion
so like if those companies are worth
three four five billion
um it's very hard to be a unicorn today
it should be there's not there's not a
lot of room so so I'll sort of shut up
with there but I don't think it's dire
it's just we're back to a world what
what got inverted for two years from
late 2020 to 2022 we this weird world
happened in Venture where each
successive round got earlier easier it
never got it always was supposed to be
harder right there's also supposed to be
a widowing from each round and then it
got inverted got easier didn't it yeah I
think is is why I don't really see that
as maybe like a very tough time now it's
more like we readjust to what it should
have been so it just had been way too
crazy in the past
um and then now we go back to
um multiples and numbers that makes more
sense I think it just went out of the
line and then now we're going back to
something more reasonable so during that
time you can also have seen a few VCS
and a few entrepreneurs with a lot of
discipline in terms of for funds manager
is don't raise too much money so that is
difficult because a lot of them make the
money out of management fees and not so
much on carry but it's the same for the
founders a lot of them also didn't
manage to have the discipline to don't
raise too much because money was so easy
to get and a lot of them were willing to
get crazy valuation but I'm seeing now
like people that are building their
second or third company here even if one
of them got an exit with Google here in
Singapore
um they're only raising one 1.5 million
are the 8 to 10 million valuation where
they can even if today still race 5
million under 25 million valuation but
they don't because they know that is
going to be very difficult for them in
one or two years down the line because
they have raised too much money at a 2i
valuation so I think the one discipline
will go through those time in a way
better uh way than the one that just
take all the easy money so I think we're
just back to what it should be and that
have been some crazy time so even if now
what is described as a down run
um I just feel is no that is the price
it should have been so it's just an
adjustment to go back to where things
should have been since the beginning so
it was it was too much easy money
so let me open up there'll be a lot of
good content today so what questions do
folks have about anything really but but
Venture and fundraising today that can
be helpful with any any questions
what excites about 2023
um
I'll tell you I don't I I I mean at a
personal level like I I don't I don't
try to follow any Trends I I don't think
renaming your company to dot AI is going
to change the world
um I I don't know
um what I what I I'm a pretty boring guy
and what I what I've found and I did a
saster post you can search it and I and
I updated it a couple years ago what
percent of public SAS companies are new
versions of existing categories new
versions and about 80 percent okay there
are breakout companies that do things
we've never seen before but everything
from freshworks to HubSpot to Salesforce
to pick like these are actually
categories they reinvented again and
again and again and personally for me of
my top Investments some have been new
categories right uh the second one I did
was a French one algolia which which did
it didn't invent search but it did
invent sort of search as an AP API but
even then searches like an old category
right Google was doing it before for
their own website you could use Google
for sure for sure so I think is
Reinventing again yeah but uh not to
ramble I personally I I uh I don't look
for the trendy things I look for the
founders that see white space in in a
space that's changing right because
every category changes every five to
seven years and whether it's mobile or
maybe it's AI maybe it isn't or just
something changes in the stack right
compute and um I like the stuff that
just gets reinvented and the best
founder so I don't have any thesis
whatsoever
um but certainly that's that's me and
you will find plenty of investors are
very very thesis driven you can see it
on their Twitters and others
um but uh mostly it's these you know
everyone's looking for phase changes I
mean the the cynical thing about venture
to to maybe it's not the point you're
saying but everyone's looking it's it's
tough everyone's looking for hyper
growth right because if we step back if
we want to abstract
if if anyone's interested in the
economics The Venture for some reason
we'd be happy to explain it but the
bottom line is you really can't make
money and Venture other than fees
um unless you have companies that in
seven to ten years get to at least 100
million in Revenue okay now it doesn't
have to be 100 million from the day you
start your company like uipath took 10
years to get to its first millionaire
Revenue it really does not matter how
long the very early days take okay but
once you once it clicks once you get to
a million to two million in Revenue
you've got ideally seven years ten years
at the outside to get to 100 or really
200 million for an IPO and so realize if
if you're frustrated with VCS if if
you're trying to learn the process bat
like anyone you've got to understand
their business model right how can you
go so if you've already hit one or two
million folks are that's why folks are
going to be looking for you to at least
double an ideally triple at one to two
million it's not because VCS are
completely jerks but think put it in a
Google sheet and do the compounding how
can you get from 2 million to 200
million in 10 years
there's the you know nourage from
batteries summarize it as the triple
triple double double right two years of
tripling two years that's just the
mathematical rate it takes so and along
with the same for me uh I'm you know
when when if you're if you're for me
when I've been fortunate enough to
invest at like a million in Revenue you
can already see that happening at a
million it's already there's a handful
of Investments I've done that were
already in a million
um uh pipedrive was my first one which
was for CRM which sold for a billion and
a half it was already growing about that
rates at a million my third investment
was talk desk it went from 1 to 15 in
one year right and uh but it was already
growing at those rates before a million
I think you have to squint you have you
can either look for very high growth at
five thousand dollars a month like it
might be a signal but it might be noise
you're not sure but you're looking so
we're all looking for that and so a
thesis investor is thinking hey AI is
going to disrupt the world there's going
to be 20 Jaspers so this AI is going to
drag us to the top right or this new
thing in cyber security or there's no
thing or other folks are just looking
for the World to Change so that some
external factor is driving up like I
mean talk desk is worth at least it was
worth 10 billion on paper that was one
of my best investments my first
investment with a billion dollar
position a billion dollar position as an
investor and what the hell happened to
talk to us in 2014 when I invested I
didn't even know it was eight people at
a million in Revenue but as dumb as it
sounds today actually webrtc didn't
really work in the browser until 2014.
and so as as rudimentary as webrtc was
in 2014 literally you could not run
simultaneous call centers in a browser
before 2014 didn't work so even though
it went down and and you had issues like
that was it phase change I didn't
understand how it works right and so
that happens in Venture sometimes
something changes in the market and all
of a sudden you know Webb came to the
now all call centers are web enabled but
it was so late because of a technology
change so you could add some thoughts
that's my rambling answer if it's
helpful I think what excited me now
especially in South in Southeast Asia is
to have a lot of second or third time
Founders so I think that is quite
interesting in the region because they
have experience you have also way more
talents now uh like you look a decade
ago finding a product manager you need
to recruit that singtel uh no you can
tap into a lot of people that are being
trained here or people move back from
the US so I think the talent pool is way
bigger not saying it's easy to get the
talent but it's bigger there's more
Capital looking at the region
um so I think it's that is quite
exciting now what I want to see more
would be I mean in the early days here
we got Zen um zopim who got acquired by
zendesk
um that studied out of Singapore but if
you mentioned told that that was studied
out of Portugal so what I would love to
see more in the region is also people
that building globally or for us like
what you see a lot in India and it's a
little bit less people building only for
Southeast Asia because most of the time
that that is going to lose you so much
time the market year is still very small
so I want to see more people going U.S
that was algolyap I mean you get a bunch
of them like your argolia front tall
desk all of them studied between France
and Portugal and they go over I mean at
uh the first two went to YC tall desk
went to 500 startup so they use
accelerator to lender and they do what I
like the Arbitrage between let's keep
technical talent in Europe because it's
great people and less expensive than the
US and maybe easier to retain and let's
get the market in the US so let's move
the CEO there let's have the marketing
and sales because Americana way better
than the European on those things and
let's just get the best of both worlds I
think that is interesting structure to
have when you come from a market that is
not so large so I wish to see less
people
um looking after southeast Asia when it
doesn't make sense and I feel it makes
sense if these days you are like a
provider of solution that most of the
company ear need meaning if you're like
zero maybe you can have some good growth
here in the region or if you are
extended if you do payments why not but
compared us it will be still a small
market so then it's go quickly to the US
but you may still be able to get some
good growth here in the region
well anybody else have any any question
on Venture fundraising any of these
pieces don't be shy or be shy if you
like
yeah that's such actually in my little
opener next it's going to be half of
what I talk about multiples because it's
such an important question when I was a
Founder
um I didn't even know what multiples
were I didn't care I was building my
company uh every dollar I made I was a
second time founder the second time uh
every dollar I made from my first
startup I just put into one ETF vti the
Vanguard Total stock market index I'm
like I don't have time to worry about
investing my own money or multiples but
today Founders need to be very Savvy
about multiples because in SAS basically
we'll dig into it later you know from
for a decade multiples were basically
the same and they were crappy
um public companies traded at five six
seven times Revenue some did better some
did worse
um there were some horrible times like
um they were the world ended in 2009 but
for the most part multiples were
consistent and crappy so you would try
to get to 100 million in Revenue if
you're really lucky like HubSpot
speaking you would IPO at 800 million
HubSpot got to 100 million IPO at 800
million that's 8X and basically startups
for a long time until 2018
startups basically were all valued at
10x if they were growing quickly or 5x
if they were okay that was my whole life
as an entrepreneur like 10x 10x 5x
um and and and so then the world
imploded right and then exploded with
covid and we saw Zoom went from one to
four billion in one year in Revenue Zoom
Not only was the almost the fastest
growing SAS company of all time to get
to a billion then in one year it went
from one to four billion and so combined
with multiple's got crazy right and and
Founders if you've only been a Founder
for the last couple years you don't even
know what the world used to look like so
I'll ramble where we don't know where
multiples are going to settle at the end
of this year they are not at all time
lows as we started all-time lows were
November 2022. we're up 20 or 30 but
they're still low they're still low and
so
my general view is that basically what I
see and this is a very U.S Bay Area
Centric view I'll give you that I don't
have the local view basically see
valuations in the Bay Area have not
changed that much
um and after that basically everything's
getting done at 10x ish if you're really
good 10x current revenues and here's the
important point if you're on fire if
you're on fire well this is what I've
learned from my portfolio the top ones
are being done at 15x current Revenue
okay and it's almost there's almost the
growth market so growth is almost Frozen
still there is almost no
um you know Excel growth did one
investment last year 30 something the
year before it's frozen okay it is
frozen but but it's warming okay the
ground is fine because people have
they've done the triage in the portfolio
they've done some down runs they've done
and basically they've internalized
they've taken a hit with their LPS right
they've said they've they've gotten
through most of them if they haven't
shared their audit from last year
they've already given them heads up that
hey our portfolio is down right and so
they want to deploy Capital again
they're ready to get back to work the
terror the terror kind of peaked in
November 2022 but the best ones the best
growth investors have decided 15x
current what's your growth rate next
year is that 10x forward 8X forward
whatever that's their ceiling and so
they're hunting they're hunting okay is
there someone at 20 million AR that's
growing 100 or more can we get them to
do a deal at 300. okay the best ones not
the average ones right the problem is a
lot of the ones at 20 million air are
growing 100 or more you know what they
raised in 20 21 at 500 or a billion so
they're on the problem is all these
companies are structurally unfundable
um so that's what I've sort of seen is
this i i people are it's still frozen
but people will do this 15x at the later
for the best ones but that's the ceiling
that's the ceiling and I think that is a
good indication point for you on your
fundraising but don't look only at that
because if you just look multiple that
is just a picture what also Jason
mentioned is also the speed of growth
which also something super important
it's not it's also at all fast are you
growing that but you will see VCS also
look at a lot of other things like
um at different stage will be also hold
your teammate structure and Etc so if
you want to look at roughly an idea
about that you can look at the SAS
napkin um done by pont9 FG Labs also do
a SAS Benchmark you can see by different
stage what are the expectations across
different thing in terms of traction and
you can see the size of the check you
can raise and at which evaluation
um but you need to also do kind of this
discovery by yourself and talk to a
bunch of investors and see homers
they're willing to give you as a
multiple because that is almost you will
see the market is willing to offer at
this time so if he was 18 months ago
it's completely different price likely
than today except on the early stage
um so you need to look at what people
are willing to offer but you also need
to know how much money do you need and
how much are you okay to be diluted
across that round so it's not
is again you need to have that
discipline and knowing about how much
money and it's not because people are
willing to give you 20 million that you
should take those 20 million maybe you
could be wait a minute for the gross I
want to do for the dilution for
everything now I'm only taking seven
eight million and it may tapping to you
later on uh not in six months more like
in 24 months and then we move to the
next phase
um but you need to be careful of that
also um so is is a balance act to to
navigate that fundraising
um and and the definitely hear the
disadvantages on the funder because you
have not so much data point when the
investors will especially at the early
stage will have a lot of comparables
across other company how much they pay
for other Investments and the only way
for you is to get as many as possible
term sheet to get a sense about what the
market is willing to offer
yeah and if I had to summarized all of
that into one one metric if if you've
mostly been a founder of the last few
years and that's your frame of reference
for fundraising I would just assume two
things and they're really just one thing
um you're going to be able to raise half
as much money at half the price and the
money is going to have to go twice as
far you're gonna have to be twice as
efficient and and I just did this closed
session with CEOs with pavilion which is
like a a Founder group and and I I just
all of in millions in Revenue up and
that they were Crest Fallen when I said
that but what do you mean I have to do
twice as much with half the money I'm
like I'm sorry I I'm as empathetic as it
gets but the last two years were insane
because what happened was the last two
years you could raise four times as much
money and be half as efficient the
efficiency was her if you folks and not
everyone here is so privileged as folks
in the Bay Area but folks became wildly
inefficient wildly inefficient and the
markets sustained it because the capital
was there and it was Gro and so this
simple math is you know half as much
half the valuation for later stages and
it importantly you have to be twice as
efficient it has to go twice as far and
I don't know about this audience I'm
still learning but for the founders I
involved with the mayor they're still
resetting to the to the third point
they're still resetting to having to
burn half as much money to get there
um and I would say most haven't gotten
there most have reduced burn they've
maybe they've done a small layoff maybe
they're or they've just done a quiet
freeze or slow down and you know they're
not spending quite as much on perks but
that really doesn't get you there
like these are they
the company but they haven't
you're gonna have to have to there with
half as much money right
um and um there's a lot of implications
so long-winded answer the question but
multiples uh I think is something that I
don't think Founders had to even really
understand a few years ago now it's got
to be part of you've got to be
monitoring it almost religiously just
because it just gives you a pulse of
where all venture will be and and the
last point I'll say and then we'll take
another question it's in my next session
so people in seed investors are pretty
chill because because what can you do
but later stage investors got despondent
last year as it was clear their unicorns
were going to run out of money they're
going to have large write Downs it was
it was terrible again there's been a bit
of a reset a bounce it might be a dead
cat bounce but a bounce since November
folks are calm
um but uh sorry maybe I got a little bit
distracted on what I thought was the
most insightful point I was going to
make
um oh here's the point
if we if multiples go up about another
20 from where they are today
we'll be kind of back to the old normal
okay and what you should look for for
multiples is the last point and I'll be
redundant in the next session once the
top public companies are trading at
about 10x on average 10x or above that's
normalcy for Venture and you can make a
spreadsheet and you can talk about why
and how ownership works out to
distributions and but it's pretty hard
to build a 3X Venture Fund in SAS if if
we don't have 10x multiples and we're
not there today
um and you know there's a handful that
trade at that um for sure there's
there's cloudflare and others but when
the average pretty good public and
that's that's rarefied air pretty good
public SAS company but if you go on the
bvp cloud index which is a great site
and I'll quote it and you see that the
top good ones are all at 10x or above
then you'll know that nature has healed
in SAS VC Nature has healed people can
make enough money and just Venture is a
hard business to make money in and it
just free everything's frozen when
multiples are too low because we lose
oxygen in the system so I think the
average for those 75 companies is 6.9
right so it's it's going up but it's
still it's still frozen it's still it's
still kind of broken right so
anyone else got a question
anything's good don't be shy
yeah there's terrible advice on the
internet on this
house report is profitability
yeah
yeah let me hit that you get two
perspectives here I think there's
look the internet's full of bad advice
at least it's faster we try to give you
pretty good advice okay from a lot of
voices full of terrible advice this one
is so confusing
um profitability does not matter
Capital efficiency matters and how much
it matters varies we are at a period now
where it matters a lot it matters not
just to VCS importantly it matters in
the public markets if you wanna if you
want your stock to trade we have
companies like Sentinel one oh my God
growing well over a hundred percent at
500 million in Revenue Crush their
multiples are terrible why
um they're investing in growth okay but
no one cared in Snowflake a year and a
half ago so we're at a phase where
Capital efficiency matters in the public
markets and therefore for a variety of
reasons it's going to matter for
startups and but but no one wants what
no vcn here's the bad advice what no VC
wants on planet Earth is slower growth
and profitability no VC wants that
trade-off because going back to the
earlier point the game is to go from one
to two million to 100 million in seven
to ten years it really doesn't matter
whether you're profitable so much as
that you're able to fund the company to
get there with good unit economics and
so sure in 2021 if if it took 200
million so be it no one cared today it
might need 40 or 30. but there's no VC
on planet Earth that's going to say I'm
excited about 20 growth and
profitability versus a hundred percent
growth and decent Capital efficiency
because it does it doesn't get you there
right so maybe maybe you knew that and
it's not helpful but I just wanted to
hammer that point in because
um no one's excited for crummy growth
and profitability it just doesn't get
that's the wrong that's the wrong
message that some on the internet people
think is true right I think
in Emerging Markets some VCS May care
about you being profitable because they
have way less way less risk adverse and
a lot of them have more PE mindset than
a VC mindset so on a p mindset
profitability matter a lot on the VC way
less because you look at very different
multiple as Jason mentioned P you may
expect your company to do three to five
x we see if you expect your company to
do three to five x you're never going to
return 3x out of your phone because most
of them are going to die and then I'm
not going to cover the one that uh the
one that succeed was not going to cover
the one who died so here in the region a
lot of Aces May care more for that but
maybe then we can argue they're not VCS
by doing so
um what they offer you is um everything
equal compared to another company it
offer you also more time for your
fundraising because you will not have
much deadline about you're running out
of cash and some VCS will have to move
maybe faster if you create enough fomo
to invest in your company so I think
that can help but it really depends on
which audience you are talking to
yeah it's a good nuance
don't
non-us style funds that aren't planning
on other Capital fundraisers or more PE
like may like that trade-off right but
the traditional world of folks
um they want efficiency today it's very
hard unless you're open AI it's pretty
hard to be inefficient but the point is
you can't change the math of when you
have to get to 100 million right no
people will give you people got a break
last year and they're still getting a
little bit of a break this year
um and and
VCS definitely have taken the pressure
off their existing portfolio companies
and this is why the advice is kind of
bad on the internet if you're sitting on
30 or 40 companies okay and and you're
running out of money yourself as a VC
and a bunch of your company's growth has
slowed but they don't need any more
money you're like oh thank God right
because I got to go deal with this
unicorn that has two months of cash left
so my I've got a bunch of I mean it's
kind of patronizing but VCS really do
think of their Investments as kids
sometimes right and if these two kids
growth is slowing down but they don't
need any more money they're not on my
problem list so we're still there's a
lot of triage going but ultimately that
doesn't mean that they would fund that
company from scratch that doesn't mean
they would put money in today it just
means my dollars are already in and
thank God I don't have to put more into
this one it just leads to a lot of
confusing advice
get out quickly no no VCS do not want
none of that's correct but keep asking
me with your question yeah
oh yes
okay so if you look at a farm let's say
the 100 million found you're going to
deploy 80 million because it's 20 for
management fees out of those 80 million
let's say you do 40 investment for zero
the thing is you're going to only get
likely two or three companies that are
really going to have an impact on how
much you return to ulps right
so as Jason mentioned it you just have a
very few years like six seven eight
years at the time you reach one or two
million in annual recurring Revenue to
grow that to 100 million to for likely
to be publicly listed through that
growth one martyr two found is those two
or three companies that succeed the
thing is you should it doesn't matter
which company fail
um and I don't judge a VC on the company
um they miss all the company that fail
it's more about which one succeed
because you only need to be right two or
three times doesn't matter if you're
being wrong 37 times
and then it's about focusing on the big
outcome and of course how can you
support the other one but what really
matter is the two or three that work
that is what you see more in the US with
a lot of competition in Emerging Markets
they prefer to have more safe baits
around all the companies and if it's
kind of oh if it could be a 10x across
all my portfolio company I'm okay with
that if each deal bring 10x in the US it
would be more like that company you need
to think about how can I make Android X
out of that company so it's what I feel
in terms of mindset some are running a
VC some are running more PE firm uh and
the p is maybe more like three five x
expectation per deal but they will do
very few deals and they're going to be
very Hands-On so it's a very different
type of business but you also see it on
terms in Emerging Market the terms they
ask you with um a lot of terms would be
more like PE terms than VC terms they
they they optimize too much on the
losing I don't they don't want to lose
their money but this is the game of
losing your money and being right just a
few times so so it's why you need to
understand which audience you're in
front of you and what you are going to
play that audience this is what we
mentioned profitability maybe resonate
way more here in Southeast Asia that it
will resonate in U.S and USA May don't
care is like are you growing fast enough
can you give me my Android X and they
want you to take that risk so here they
will be more cautious
well you know to simplify all all of it
thinking through it um when you meet
there's all there are all different
types of investors and the investors
you're going to hear after this you're
going to hear from Sequoia and Bessemer
and ggvc and others they're all going to
have this the same answer to this
question that I'm going to tell you to
ask everyone but not all investors
especially in different smaller markets
ask them what their their goal is what
their average exit size is ask them what
your average exit goal is and the
average exit goal for a big U.S fund
even if they're the low the local
virtually it's 2 billion they want
Summit 10 billion you know and 20
billion but the model ask them what
their model is at 2 billion and you'll
hear I'll give it you know on not to
over europize this but when I invested
my second investment was Venture
investment was this French company
called algolia and and back then Europe
Europe was a very local market they did
not Believe In Unicorns until 2015 2016.
and another and I was able to buy more
stock in the seed round than I thought I
could get and you know why was because
Alvin which is one of the top French
Capital firms said we can't afford to
invest in the round I said what do you
mean you can't afford you said well the
valuation's 12 million I said it seems
like a fine I don't care
like it's a good company like my problem
is I can't I want to put invest 2
million at 12 million I can I can't get
enough money into this company I'm like
what do you mean you can't invest and
here is my aha moment okay and this is
totally different in Europe today than
it was in 2014. but what what Rafi said
is our exit model is 50 million at our
fund it's 50 million now it changed in
about a year okay which also you can
understand because at that time in the
French ecosystem there wasn't much big
exits it wasn't like large companies by
the way algolia last one was 2.25
billion yeah 12 million was like but but
the point is they couldn't invest
because think about it at 12 million pre
14 million posts to to get to 50 million
just to get to 3x there has to be no
more dilution right so so if you're if
you're talking with any of the type of
VCS that are talked today like they're
looking for two billion dollar or higher
exits now it's okay if some don't do it
but to invest they have to believe it's
possible it's possible there if an
investor with a 50 million dollar model
like a p firm they may be all smiles and
giggles and care about profitability but
how much money can you put into a
company like a couple million bucks
right because there's not enough room
like if someone comes in and invests at
5 million posts and they put in 2
million and buy 40 of your company and
the exit models 50 million there's not a
lot of room like you can't even raise
another round you're done you have one
two million dollar round in that model
and and so and so those investors may be
a better choice for somebody they'll
they'll work with you very differently
right
um I have a friend of mine who uh
Canadian entrepreneur thought he was
kind of U.S style but but but raised
money from a VC in Canada okay nothing
against Canadians I love all Canadians
but he didn't know it was he didn't know
what he was getting himself into and
he's like I raised 12 million bucks
um and then the founders got fired okay
and why what what and these These are
great guys I know what happened well it
wasn't really Venture Capital it was
really a PE firm and they really gave
them each six million of the 12 million
a lot of money right 6 million bucks
each but the exit model was a hundred
million and it was done there was no
more Capital going in it was all it was
just it he didn't ask the questions
what's your model right and and and and
so it was it was he thought it was
raising money from a VC firm but he was
really doing a a PE deal where they
wanted to buy most of the cap table out
uh they gave the founders Millions but
they took over the whole company right
they ended up buying 80 of the company I
think I think a lot of things we
mentioned today is also about for
Founders to really understand what is
the VC business and also get a sense
about who are the LPS and who LPS look
at being part of those VCS so if you
talk to a VC few questions you can ask
is get a sense about what is the lp base
get a sense about what kind of profile
of those people but also in the phone if
you go talk to energy and found is also
understanding what is the check size
compared to the size of the phone and
the number of portfolio companies they
want to build because then you will
understand are they doing a very small
check in your company are they doing a
very large check compared to what
they're used to so then you get a sensor
about how they're going to be involved
in ETC but I'm always very surprised a
lot of funders don't really ask much
question to GPS
and you should look that as a double
opt-in is you also decide who come in
your company don't feel like it's just a
privilege
um to get their money and their terms
but you also need to do your own due
diligence and you should talk to other
funders uh and get a sense about how
those VCS behave before you take any
money so I'm always surprised by a whole
little people do in terms of homework in
understanding the VC industry and to who
they talk to you should really spend
time there because most of the VC will
honestly make your company successful
but as Jason mentioned a bunch of them
can destroy your company yeah
so be careful on who you bring on board
yeah don't don't and make sure we have
time to take a couple more questions we
have to move on most Founders don't do
enough diligence on the VCS they partner
with they do the wrong types of
diligence if nothing else if nothing
else asks get to know their business
model just like your customers like if
you have a big customer you want to know
what how do your software works there
what's the business model don't
understand like okay tell me what what
you can just ask a Colombo open question
what what do you hope to have happen
with this investment just just ask
you'll be shocked what answer you might
get what do you have or just a
successful investment look for you right
or you can ask what if I I or you can do
like a self-effacing version Look we
want to build the next whatever Google
but what happens if in a couple years we
sell the company for 100 million this is
a great leading question what happens if
100 million is a lot of money right but
if you ask what happens at 100 million
and you and you and you kind of ask off
the cuff at lunch without saying that's
your only goal like you have no
aspirations beyond that because that's a
flag you'll get a great answer like if
someone asked me what would have if it's
over 100 million be like it's fine
it's great like I'm all about founder
power like that's great probably won't
make much of a difference to me
but it's good like it's great like what
if that's what's good that that's it's
like a telling answer but you're not
hearing me like stand up like I'm like
100 100 million dollars right because
for me you know I've I've invested four
smaller funds I have 60 million right so
if I bought 10 of your company and you
sell for 100 million I make 10 million
I've only gotten 15 of the way that I
haven't even it's not even 1X it's like
great like I'm all for you but it's like
you know it's only a snack
it doesn't even get to the main course
let alone you know and uh any hour so
those Columbo questions you know learn
the LPS talk to 28 other Founders but
just get the best VCS are really good at
this is at the end of a process they'll
take a Founder out to lunch and they'll
ask some unguarded questions that you
think are just chit chat but they're
really good questions they're I I'll
tell you the best question I ever got
from a VC who then did not give me a
term sheet
um but it's I really liked him he took
me out to a long lunch in Downtown Palo
Alto and at the end he's like Jason just
one last question like what's the first
thing I'll learn at your board meeting
that I don't know today it was such a
good question because I was just and I
gave him the totally honest answer right
but it's like and they're they're good
at so but Founders don't do this enough
for the VCS like you're in sell sell
mode it's weird these people aren't even
human
um but ass just just ask the question
what's your what's your goal here so all
right we'll try to do two more questions
where we have to to break
I have said that yeah
everyone
um it's changed it's it's
um I mean look what there's a lot
you ask how could these things happen
how could these ftxs and uh fast and all
these crazy companies happen and and but
what happened was in 2021 you know if
you if they come to his growing quickly
enough and you invested a hundred
million valuation which is high like
four months later it could be worth 500
million or a billion and so on paper you
were you were brilliant and one of
literally my favorite SAS investor so
many unicorns public companies been
doing this forever one of the most
cautious people I know at the peak of
2020 want to invest in one of my
companies like one doing well and he's
like I'll just give him a term sheet
this afternoon just tell me if there's
anything I need to know nothing now he
did have me it's it's a decades-long
relationship since I was first going but
I was shocked did not need to talk to it
because because this guy he was not that
he was stupid he could see the math he's
like okay if I invest today at 300 in
the crazy world of 2021 it's going to be
worth 2 billion like I it is and I'd
like and I want to do 50 this year not
not two because people the pace of
investing was that was so fast and
furious that people intentionally did
not do the diligence okay it was an
intentional choice and Sequoia was
almost honest about the FTX thing which
is like yeah we should have done more we
got caught but like the pace was so
Furious and so I think we have reverted
back but not all the way back people are
still shooting from the hip I think
investing over Zoom is encourages
shooting from the hip for a lot of VCS
they don't do the extra work
um what I would say to folks is just
just be aware of it get your acts
together don't don't present fake the
number one bit advice I could give is
too many Founders have always done this
in SAS but it got really bad in like
2021 early 22. people would present
pseudo numbers
they would present numbers like
quarterly mrr where they would take
three months and combine them or worse
but I this is the fraud I have in my own
portfolio and I'll put prod in quotes
Founders including
accelerating bookings into one number
like I have a one-year deal I have a you
know 120k deal it's 10K a month well
I'll just book it as 120 this month
that's fraud
that's fraud okay uh contracts that like
are pilots that are unpaid pretending
they're paid
um just get get your act together and
don't there's no upside anymore to these
games right and you'll probably get
caught and then the deal won't happen
right you can't walk yourself it's
really hard even if there's a term sheet
it's really hard to walk back fraud it's
very so just don't don't don't don't
don't do it I think it also depends a
lot on the stages if you have very early
stage investor there's not much you can
do in time of Duty so I think on that
side is unlikely to change
um you get some early stage investors I
mean and for any example they share
publicly Firebase green die you often do
a deal just by one hour call or even
shorter and any commit any admitted that
I think his first Android term sheet he
didn't read anything it just signed it
was like okay maybe get one or two
throat but it was kind of and it was
surprised he didn't get any but Sequoia
for example is um I think they're
working with one um audit firm um to go
through a lot of their for your
companies for Sequoia India slash
southeast Asia so you're going to get
more scrutinity from investors at the
later stage uh for sure and maybe don't
call your company with a name starting
with the F right between Frank FTX and
and faster so
thank you to money out
well look here's what I've learned
um
the uh
the best Founders don't do this stuff
the best Founders and this is why
Venture Capital actually works despite
all of its warts okay the best Founders
some of them are nice some of them are a
little rough around the edges okay some
of them make you feel good when you're
around some of them make you feel like
it's a lock a lot of intensity in the
room but they all have integrity okay
you can't lead a hundred people 500
people a thousand people if you don't
keep your word you can't there has to be
levels of trust and integrity to do this
and when money got thrown at everything
in 2021 people without Integrity raised
a lot of money okay and that and those
folks do have their cousins on the
payroll and there will be more stories
of folks that bought Ferraris and
Lamborghinis and certainly Teslas
um the the you'll hear hundreds of those
come out from low Integrity people
um and but if you invest if you take and
this is why for me investing over zoom's
hard right if you invest in high
integrity people this stuff doesn't have
it just doesn't happen because it's not
worth the Founder's time they're so
focused on going up that hill recruiting
the great team you can't the self
there's no time for self-dealing it
won't get you there right it literally
won't get you there and and that's why a
lot of the times the best Founders
you'll often hear a story and it's not
that I want this as an investor to be
like oh you know I had to go four months
without salary or like you know my I cut
my salary so I could hire her or him and
it's not that you want that but when you
hear those high integrity stories like
you know it's going to go well and if
you see a hint of low integrity
a hint of low Integrity
um I haven't lost a lot of like I
haven't lost a lot of venture money on
low Integrity but unlike Angel advisor
stuff I I kind of experiment and did a
wider a wider and I have had low
Integrity situations there and I I never
made a dollar
I've had what I used to when I was
getting going I was an advisor to an
advisor to a bunch of CEOs and I just
wanted to learn different spaces okay
and four of them
um I made no money on at all on my
advisor shares okay and what happened
there was something
smelly that happened in the situation
three of them promised me X shares and
gave me less
okay they said I'll give you a hundred
thousand shares to help us and I got the
paperwork at 70. okay does it make I'm
not doing it for the money but when I
saw that they all failed all the CEOs
that said they would give me a hundred
Kane gave me a hundred percent of them
many of them raised a lot of venture
capital but all the low Integrity people
failed so I think it solves it and
that's why this but there's
and and for Founders realize this now
that things are harder remember that and
people forgot this in 2021 there is
trust here so build trust with because
it is scary for for VC it is there's a
lot of trust and you do have to have
some fraud but
there is a shockingly amount of trust
involved in in Venture investing and
just don't forget you don't take don't
don't take it for granted right I think
it was Ryan Buffett he was saying like
you need to look at three things in
people like intelligence energy and
integrity and if they if they don't have
the last one don't bother with the first
two so it's the same thing with founders
okay I think we have time for one more
question then we can go to the X anyone
else got one more question
you know I think the issue with M A is
and I'll answer the question we could
wrap this it's really interesting is
that uh you know
for the public companies for the most
part get can't help themselves but get m
a wrong this is another place the
internet's all wrong okay public
companies are subject to the same feast
and famine that the rest of us are so
people are making fun of Salesforce for
spending 27 billion dollars for slack
well Salesforce is stock was at an
all-time high and slack is still doing 2
billion today it's a pretty it's like
the best thing they bought so like you
can't help yourself now sales yeah why
doesn't Salesforce go by another slack
for 6 billion well salesforce's stock is
down by half its growth is slowed to the
teens it's under activist pressure so
they've lost the ability so M A like you
think M A should pick up in when things
are calmer but it does it doesn't happen
that way right now to some extent
there's a little bit of like you know
the Tomo Bravos and the vistas they have
some insulation from this but even they
don't like Vista is struggling to close
its latest fund even though vista's
historical results are really strong
right Tomo Bravo is incredible but their
last fun is is it's J curve s but it's
still negative irr they're not immune to
these issues so M A does not pick up
What multiples go down okay that's the
most important part to think even though
the internet says oh everyone should go
out of buying spree you know the handful
of companies whose valuations are higher
than a year ago should go on a buying
spree and they may but that's you know
like attack that's the trade disk I
can't think of any other public SAS
company and if you consider that SAS
that's higher uh that they should go if
they have a 30 billion dollar market cap
they should go spend 3 billion right and
if you I think if you look also a
southeast Asia is getting very calm
these days no no one want to put that
much money into something very risky so
you may have more very opportunistic and
looks like more Ikea here for very cheap
price so you may get those kind of
acquisition in the next few months but
very large one is no one is with so much
trouble to run the company these days
the public listed one want to take that
much risk especially anything above half
a billion or a billion the if you are
going to take risks to go there
yeah mostly like
multiples are lower for Eminem we can
bring it up but at the end of the day
it's it's it's it's like
they're different types of buyers but
it's all rational like public companies
can pay a higher multiple than what they
trade out but not that much unless it's
a game changer unless it's a game
changer right P firms can pay higher
multiples than public companies are
trading at but not more than 20 or 30
percent the vistas and and insights and
tomorrow they can't pay much more than
20 or 30 premiums 40 percent uh because
they can't see that they can make money
right so it all just comes down
proportionately it's and it's not even
that big a deal the bigger issue is just
a lot of it is just stopped
right it's just it's just stopped like M
A it sounds silly but M A has to Boom
when times are good and it has to be
calm when times are tougher it's just
it's counterintuitive to all the
brilliant people on the internet looking
at spreadsheets but it's we're human
beings right we're subject to
externalities so all right more stuff to
come all day we've got so much great VC
content coming but let's break today
um uh I think we've got like three other
I don't even know what's on this channel
we got a ton of sessions and I'll you
don't have to come to my kickoff you've
heard enough from me but I'm gonna dig
in a little bit on this and on multiples
a little more folks weren't bored of
that topic session here at 4 PM with ggv
vertex and Square Peg and we're going to
discuss about series a so yeah that
shall be All-Star so yeah if you want to
know more about Venture and you do
nothing else today come to the come to
this 4 pm one that's probably right in
this room so thanks everybody let's have
a good day today appreciate it
foreign
[Music]